- **Advanced Package Tool (APT**) is used by Debian-based system:
+ It is used to install application (and their dependencies)
+ Remove applications
+ Updates and upgrades packages

Basic of how it works:
+ It reads the /etc/apt/sources.list
+ Direct installation and uninstallation of package to `dbkg` depackage command.

APT Command:
+ `/etc/apt/sources.list`: Configuration file that lists out repository location for packages
+ `apt-get update`: updates the local `apt cache` with a listing of packages that can be updated/upgraded and installed.
+ `apt-get upgrade`: upgrades the packages that have upgrades available
+ `apt-get install`: installs a package from the repositories in the source list file

>[!info] Difference between `update` and `upgrade`:
>+  `apt-get update` retrieves the latest package information from the configured software repositories. It downloads the package lists and metadata **but does not actually perform any package upgrades or installations**
>+ `apt-get upgrade` installs any available updates for the installed package on the system.
>
>`=>` In other words, `apt upgrade` install package based on the listing created by `apt update`
>`=>` The listing of apt-get update is stored in `/var/lib/apt/lists/`


+ `apt-get remove`: Removes a package from the system **but the configuration files will be left behind**
+ `apt-get purge`: Removes the package from the system and any asssociated configuration file.
+ `apt-get dist-upgrade`: Upgrades all packages on the system up to the next release of the distribution.
+ `apt-get download`: download the package **but does not install it**.

>[!info] The difference between `apt-get upgrade` and `apt-get dist-upgrade`
>+ `apt-get upgrade` installs the latest version of the packages that are already installed, but it does not handle changes in package dependencies or perform package removals. It focuses on upgrading existing packages to their latest version.
>+ `apt-get dist-upgrade` performs a istribution upgrade, it does not only upgrade installed packages, it also handle changes in package dependencies and perform package removals if necessary. It is there to resolve complex package dependency changes that may occur during a distribution release upgrade.

+ `apt-cache search <package_name>`: This command search for packages matching the specified string.
+ `apt-cache show <package_name>`:this command show detailed information about a specific package, including its description, version, dependencies.
+ `apt-cache depends <package_name>`: This command displays the dependencies of a specific package, including package's dependencies  and the package that depend on it.
+ `apt-cache policy <package_name>`: This command displays the installation status and version of a specific package, including the available versions from different repositories.

#### How to identify what libraries are currently used by a process

+ Use `ps aux | grep -w '<process name>' | grep -v grep | awk '{print $2}'` to grap the PID of the process currently being used.
+ Use `lsof -p <process PID> | grep REG`to list all `regular file` currently being used by the pr
+ Notice that the name has `.so` or `.a` which indicates library file


#### Package management
+ After using `apt-get install <package name>`, we can use `apt-get update` to update the package cache.
* To find information about installed package, use `dpkg -s <package name>`, `apt-cache search <package name>` only displays information regarding the source of that package not the information about the package on the current system.
* After installation, we can use `service <service name> status` or `systemctl is-actve <service name>` to check if the service is currently available.
* For applicaiton, we can use `<application name> --version` or `ls /usr/bin | grep <application name>` to check if the application is installed prior to using it.
