- [ ] Yellowdog Updater, Modified (YUM):
+ Originally used for the Yellowdog Linux distribution
+ Handles RPM package dependencies
+ Installs, upgrades, and removes packages
+ Used on `Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)`, `Centos`, `Scientific Linux`, and older versions of `Fedora`.

YUM setup:
+ Global YUM configuration options are set in `/etc/yum.conf`
+ Reads repository information from `/etc/yum/repos.d`
+ Caches latest repository information in `/var/cache/yum`


>[!info] Other RPM Package Managers
`Zypper`: Used on `SUSE Linux` distribution.
`DNF - Dandified YUM`: Used on `Fedora Linux` distribution and uses the same command syntas as yum.

+ `yum update`: this command will read each repository within `yum.repos.d` and search for any updated packages available for the system.
+ `yum search`: search the yum repositories for a specified package
+ `yum info`: Lists information about a specified package.
+ `yum list installed`: display all installed packages.
+ `yum clean all`: clean up all of yum's cache information and its local database file


+ `yum install`: install a specified package and all of its dependencies
+ `yum remove`: uninstall a package, leaves dependencies behind.
+ `yum autoremove`:uninstall a package and its dependencies.
+ `yum what provides`: find out what package provides a specified file name.
+ `yum reinstall`: reinstall a specified package.

#### Package management
+ Use `rpm -qi` to get installation status from a package, `rpm -qpi` to get the overall information about a package.
+ In case the installation using `rpm -i` failed due to insufficient dependencies, use `yum provides <package name>` to list all the dependencies needed. Then `yum install` to install all the dependencies.
+ To check if the application is installed use `which <application name>` or `<application name> --version` or `ls /usr/bin | grep <application name>`
+ To check if a service is installed `service <service name> status` or `systemctl is-active <service name>`