
##### Changing working environment: `runlevel`

`runlevel`: View current runlevel
`telinit`: Change to another runlevel
+ `telinit + level`: change runlevel.

##### Changing working environment: `target`
+ A target is a unit that syncs up other units when the computer boots or changes states
+ Often used to bring the system to a new state:
	1. `multi-user.target`: A state with just command line.
	2. `graphical.target`: A state with a desktop environment.
+ Other units associate themselves with a target for an OS.

>[!info]+ Types of Targets:
>+ `multi-user.target`: commonly used on server instances, similar to a `runlevel 3`
>+ `graphical.target`: similar to `runlevel 5`
>+ `rescue.target`: pulls in a basic system and file system mounts and provides a rescue shell.
>+ `basic.target`: basic system, used during the boot process before another target takes over (`default.target`)
>+ `sysint.target`:system initialization, this is the target that get used ater `systemd` takes over the computer for the kernel

**To view the content of a target** => `systemctl cat + target`
**To view all the system target*** => `systemctl list-unit-files -t target`
**To view all the targets that are currently active** => `systemctl list-units -t target`
**To view the default target of a computer** => `systemctl get-default`
**To change the default target to another one** => `systemctl set-default + target`

**To change the running state of the system from the current target to a different target, we need to isolate to the target we want to change => `systemctl isolate + wanted target`

`systemctl rescue`: Almost identical to System V Init single-user mode, allow the root user to repair the system.
`systemctl reboot`: Run the reboot.target. The same thing as typing 'Reboot' in the prompt.
`Systemctl poweroff`: Perform a complete shutdown.

**Reboot command**s
`telinit 6`: change `runlevel` to level 6 which is the reboot runlevel.
`reboot`: reboot command
`shutdown -r now`: tell the system to restart right now.
`systemctl isolate reboot.target`: Reboot the system on `systemd` machine.

**Shutdown commands**
`poweroff`: shutdown the machine.
`tellinit 0`: change runlevel to level 0 which is the halt runlevel.
**=>** If we want to shutdown the machine but there are multiple users on the machine, we can specify a time that the shutdown will occur.
`shutdown -h 1 minute`: This will tell the machine to `halt` for a minute before shutting down.
`shutdown -c`: to cancel the shutdown process
`systemctl isolate poweroff.target`: shutdown the system on `systemd` machine.

**Note**
It is a good practice to tell all the users that you are going to poweroff or reboot the system, we can use `wall` to achieve this.
`wall`: broadcasts a message to all logged in users.

**Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (acpi)**
+ Registers system events (such as pressing the power button or closing the laptop lid).

##### To check if the system support graphical interface
`systemctl status display.manager.service`: this will display the service responsible for UI.
